I'm an introvert not amazing
academically didn't feel like it
belonged anywhere average at best and
yet you created Spotify yeah Daniel P
Spotify founder in CUO he's not only
saved the music industry he's created a
$50 billion company and he himself is
worth more than4 billion I flun high
school and started on my first company
and that later got acquired you retired
at 23 yeah first month was fun
nightclubs sports car 20 or 30 girls
throwing around money 6 months in
realized that this thing I thought I
wanted I just didn't want at all and I
was just empty just thinking am I ever
going to get out of this depression and
what to do in life what if you can work
on something you actually care about
what would you pick music but the
industry is going down the drain I
honestly did not think we would succeed
but if we succeed I knew it was going to
be a big thing Spotify is here a
One-Stop shop for music you use Spotify
I love it I read the journey to that
success had multiple near-death
experiences it was awful ran out of
money I lost all of the hair gained £30
and the problem was I modeled myself on
the Mark Zuckerberg of the world to run
every meeting and be the best product
person and it just wasn't me share the
burden with someone it is so important
we tend to believe the world is more
logical than what it is but it's based
on relationships be the easiest person
to deal with and you'd be surprised how
many problems it solves one of those
problems was
Apple what's your opinion on Apple
[Music]
Daniel what is the most important
context that I need to know about you to
understand the man that's sit in front
of me today and when I ask about context
I want to go right back to where you
come from and that earliest environment
that I almost I almost see it like an
oven I see our early as context as like
an oven that baked us into who we are
today what is that context I'm a product
of a very very strong single mom um a
woman that probably had a ship on her
shoulder um um against her sibling her
brother older brother who kind of said
you can't do this you can't raise uh a
child to be productive um and I think uh
she kind of uh just well hellbent on
making a Point uh of showing that you
know um I was going to be successful in
her definition and successful meant uh
well educated well read uh and be able
to handle almost U anything thrown at me
and just to give you an example of that
while I was brought up in the suburb of
Stockholm very much a workingclass rough
neighborhood one of the big things that
my mother did was she had me um doing a
pentathlon and the pentathlon was like
the classic pentathlon so that means
fencing horseback riding uh shooting uh
running and swimming um doesn't sound
like what someone basically from the
projects in in Stockholm uh would do uh
but she thought that would be a good
sort of uh wide education for me um and
and pretty much my entire life has been
around that I I was kind of clumsy as a
kid um my my fine motor skills was
pretty good my rough motor skills wasn't
very good so she enrolled me in like an
all female gymnastics group um you know
I'm an introvert so she enrolled me in a
theater group um to have me you know
learn um how um to express myself uh and
and so um an Eclectic childhood um but
one where she heavily influenced me uh
uh brought me along in almost every
context with adults uh with professors
like at a very early age and just had me
sit sit along uh or uh with just the
person from next door uh who was
struggling uh getting to the next
paycheck and and I really saw all of
those contracts in in life from a very
young age did she have any desire for
you to become any specific thing cuz uh
I I'm I'm I'm honestly not sure but I
think she wanted me to be broad um just
in general um so um and and I I think in
many families you kind of have this
maybe educational pressure where you
have to be a doctor you have to be a
lawyer like none of that mattered to my
mom um the only thing that mattered and
she kept repeating us was that you need
to become a good human being um and for
her um if I wanted to study sure um she
thought education mattered and was
important um but um not like in other
families and the only thing in fact um
you know probably influenced Spotify
later on was um I very much come from a
music family my my grandfather was an
opera singer my grandmother was um an
actress in theater but also um jazz
pianist so um like music education was
weirdly enough like the the premier
education that was focused on for me and
then all the other stuff she was
basically only important that I showed
effort um I I had a pretty easy time in
school and so uh she constantly kept
pushing me because she felt that I
wasn't uh I wasn't making enough of an
effort uh no matter what so it wasn't
about the grade I could come home with a
straight A uh she would still be like
well did you really make an effort I
don't think so and um and um and and so
for her it was kind of always that thing
about like just pushing and making the
real effort so she cared more about less
about the outcome and more about how
much of your potential you were
realizing yeah very much
so so on school then you you referenced
that she kind of identified you were an
introvert early on but then I think you
said you had a good you had an easy time
in school typically people that are
introverted that are um an only child at
the time that they go off to
school often they struggle a little bit
Yeah because you know finding friends
and fitting into social groups and I
read somewhere else that you don't love
small talk you tend to gravitate towards
the people that you know yeah what would
school like for someone for a kid like
that well I I think you know um I think
there are many types of introverts let's
begin with that and I can switch it on
when I have to uh and certainly I think
the theater helped me um you know I can
be very project a lot of things if I'd
like to uh and and be a force of nature
but it doesn't come easy that requires
tons of energy whereas others get energy
from like the room and they're like very
excited it's just not me um for me
anything with anyone I'm not comfortable
with is really taking a lot of energy um
um but but I think the easy time in
school was just uh I loved learning I've
always loved learning so um you know put
be putting in an environment where
you're constantly being forced to learn
new things wasn't a very hard thing for
me and um I have a very good um I used
to have a very good memory I don't have
it anymore but I was able to memorize
very easily the concepts and the things
that we talked about in school and so um
I think in that end it was very easy for
me and then again because my mother
tried to make me very broad um the
positive and the negative of that aspect
is I could kind of be in any social
group I could be with the athletes I was
n the best athlete by any stretch of the
imagination but it worked uh I can be in
the musicians group as well with any of
the people who were really good at Arts
um and I you know I probably wasn't the
best at any of that stuff either but it
was pretty decent but I could also be in
the math group I probably wasn't the
best of math but I was pretty decent and
um that to be honest is kind of the
Story of My Life um you can kind of plug
me in anywhere I won't excel at
practically anything but I'll hold my
fort and that's I think both a blessing
and a curse the blessing is in is that
it's very easy for people to for me to
be able to relate to other people enough
where I'm accepted in the group but it's
hard in the sense the downside with that
is that I never really belong anywhere
mhm because I'm not that one-sided
um as an individual you know I'm not an
artist I'm not a
technologist um I'm not a business
person I'm all of that and probably a
few other things as well um and and you
can see that very clearly with my friend
group too you'll have artists on the one
side and you have entrepreneurs on the
other end and it's very hard for them to
speak to each other most times but I
love it I love um seeing very creative
people I love uh you know business
people and scientists mixed together
whereas the scientists gets very you
know have a hard time found uh speaking
to an artists um and quite often they're
talking past each other um for me it's
just I love it um and and that's the
blessing and curse when I speak to
people that know you and work with you
they describe you as
ambitious now ambition and being
ambitious is an interesting word because
it's often loaded with this presumption
that someone has a desire for a certain
outcome yeah like they're trying to
they're ambitious because they want to
be really successful or they want
gazillion pounds um are you ambitious
and what does that actually mean to
you um yeah I'm I'm I'm ambitious um but
I probably am ambitious in the uh the
way my mother taught me to be ambitious
which is the inputs right which is um
you know if I see someone with
Incredible potential that that squanders
that potential um I um I asked myself
why why are you doing this and why not
strive for the great thing and in so
many cases in life I found that the
difference between you know aiming super
high versus um aiming just a little bit
higher than where you are from an effort
perspective it's about the same effort
um so you might just as well aim higher
you know this saying of you shoot for
the stars and you land on the moon um
that is very much kind of my life
philosophy why not trying to do it
bigger why not try to do it um even more
interesting and maybe you have to settle
for something less but isn't it more
interesting and more fun to try to do
the really big hairy audacious thing not
for everyone maybe maybe not uh but I
know that because you work with so many
people that maybe don't lean into
ambition yeah that that's true but I I
also wonder if if that's true uh or
whether they're just worried
about really testings and understanding
where their limits are so many people
are more afraid of failure than they are
of success uh and that stops them from
even beginning to try um right and and I
find that so many times like the amount
of people I'm sure came to you is like
oh it's really good for you but I had
the same idea it's like okay well why
didn't you do anything about it and and
often times it's like well for this and
that and that reason and and they talk
themselves out of it um but at the very
core I believe it comes down to that
they're actually more worried about
failing than they are about the
prospects of
succeeding your kids then what would you
advise them to do if they were say they
wanted to follow in your Footsteps in
particular or start a business at that
juncture where we kind of leave High
School yeah and we can either go into
like work or university would you do you
think the the university system is a
little bit outdated yeah I do um but as
with many things um you know I I don't I
I don't think it's bad I don't think
it's good either I think it depends
there are certain people that do well in
that structure and and need that kind of
rigor of that sort of path to go down
and do incredibly well um against um you
know the essays and the as it and
they're really good and they're really
good with the lectures and then taking
the notes and just have that sort of
discipline in that area of their life
where they do well in that circumstance
and then that education then sets them
up for greater things so I think it
depends I mean if your dream is to
become a lawyer then I think you have to
go through that path right um because
it's impossible otherwise I think if you
want to be an
entrepreneur uh the single best thing
you can do is to um probably study as
many business as you can and get as much
business exposure in that so what do I
mean by that well it can come in by
working for businesses uh that are great
but more importantly probably working
for great individuals um and learning
from them right so if you are fortunate
enough to be able to do um you know
we're talking about this but um your
behind the scenes version um and and and
being able to like work for you and that
and see you up up close it's going to be
invaluable for that individual that get
to do that um because you get to see
entrepreneurship from the first row you
get to see what it's like um what
business aspect What's um you know how
do you do that how much admin do you
need to carry and even if you're just a
fly on the wall you're going to learn so
many skills that are quite diverse and
and that's the I think the biggest trick
about entrepreneurship is like the the
for
me uh everyone when they think about the
word Innovation they think that it's
something entirely novel yet for me
Innovation um I don't know of a single
thing that just someone came up with uh
that had no prior grounds everything is
about putting two or more things in
together in a new context um so studying
many different things understanding a
little bit about business understanding
a little bit about um product and how to
make that product um understanding uh
whatever it is that our drivers uh from
that I think is important um and that's
not to say that University can't do that
and it can't be helpful to learning
sales and the theory of it Etc um but I
think that there is many other paths you
could take uh that may even if you're um
you know if you have enough grits and
kind of like are able to put yourself in
a situation where you can uh get in
front of the right person start working
for them um so much is in life is around
people believing in you and and giving
you the right place to grow um and and
and it's it's really certain dipit is to
be honest um and and and I'm certainly a
product of all that so I I I think it is
not right or wrong it's just I I dislike
how we're talking about it as it is the
way or um you know it's not the way and
it's like no I think it's more like it
works sometimes for certain individuals
and then for other individuals not the
best use of their time and there are
other paths you can take but educating
yourself even if that's outside of a
university and getting a degree concept
that I think is invaluable and it's the
most important thing you can be doing as
a young individual about anything you're
interested in I think that's one of the
big misconceptions people have about me
when they hear I dropped out of
University they think I don't like
education no no no no no yeah I spend
all day like all night till 2: a.m.
learning about rockets and Ai and all
that stuff a self-educated but the
institution of Education that is
University for me I just couldn't stay
awake yeah in that experience same here
but for another person it is exactly
what they they need because they may not
even know what they're interested in and
they feel like I want to have a
foundation that gives me a broad base so
again if a master's of Science degree if
if you know you want to be an engineer
but you're not entirely sure what type
of engineer it's a very broad Foundation
that will teach you Elemental skills
that um you probably will use at some
point in time um not saying you can't go
outside of that realm too but it's great
stuff um and if you're wired that way
you do well in that type of environment
uh great um and there's certain types of
people that do that when young people
come up to me and ask me this question
about what I should be doing with my
life at that early stage the advice I've
started to give and I want to check how
you how you would change or add or alter
this advice is to try and go and join a
startup so just for context I'm talking
about people that want to be
entrepreneurs here yeah to try and go
and join a startup that's doing
something at the very cutting edge of
the world or a wave that's currently
coming into to shore so I'd say to young
kids like go and join an AI startup and
the reason I say startup is because
you're going to be closer to the
decision making you're going to learn
more you're going have more exposure
than like if you went and worked at I
don't know a Google or something sure um
and also it's the cheapest way to fail
when you're young right like you can
observe the company fall into the
graveyard without there being a huge
cost to you yeah uh I I would agree I
mean I I think that is a tremendous
um uh opportunity uh to do that um but
again I've seen the paths work too I've
seen people uh join bigger companies and
move around inside of that company and
um get a super valuable skills um and
then eventually um kind of break out as
an entrepreneur as well and maybe um you
wanted to save up some money and
obviously if you're join a little bit of
a bigger company you're able to do that
and prioritize doing both and then you
know once you have that kind of Nest Egg
of sorts you can then break out and so I
I I don't know I it's like the I used to
think um and you and I we were talking
about this before I used to think that
you know hey I've got all this advice
I'm going to just going to give it and
more and more I on a personal basis I'm
not sure I'm in a great position to give
advice on many things um and and so I I
try to stay away from it I can't help
myself when I feel like people are doing
it but I try to not do it as much as I
do um and it's actually something I'm
deeply conscious about because I don't
think that there's one path in life I
think that there are many paths in life
and um of course there are really bad
ones um but
but some some of the more amazing life
stories aren't the obvious ones uh it is
not the people even doing the sort of
hey I joined a startup or I did this and
that it may be the person who spent um
start life in a lab to only get so
frustrated in the end that they end up
breaking out and then forming a company
because no one else wanted to do the
idea that they had in mind or maybe the
person who uh was the least likely to
solve that problem but had really been
spending all this time thinking about it
um and developed this really odd skill
while doing their normal day job that
then turned out to be really useful to
solving this particular
problem I find it incredibly fascinating
that when we look at the back end of
spotify and apple and our audio channels
the majority of people that watch this
podcast haven't yet hit the follow
button or the Subscribe button wherever
you listening to this I would like to
make a deal with you if you could do me
a huge favor and hit that subscribe
button I will work tirelessly from now
until forever to make the show better
and better and better and better I can't
tell you how much it helps when you hit
that subscribe button the show gets
bigger which means we can expand the
production bring in all the guests you
want to see and continue to doing this
thing we love if you could do me that
small favor and hit the follow button
whatever you're listening to this that
would mean the well to me that is the
only favor I will ever ask you thank you
so much for your time back to this
episode and going back to that first
company that was acquired at
vertigo after that was acquired um I
read that you retired at
23 yeah I'm guessing that made you
enough money to retire yep and you're 23
which is in 2006 and you're a retired
man living what one can only describe
as any 23 year- old's dream yeah lots of
money guessing there was some champagne
there I think there was a red
Ferrari how was that for you
it was
amazing no all all jokes aside I grew up
and as I said I was kind of like always
socially accepted but didn't feel like
it belonged anywhere and um I um um I
never had an easy time with girls um not
a bad time just not as as good as if I
was widely successful in music or wildly
successful in sports or any of that
stuff and I kind of had odd interest
because I kept as I said kind of moving
from group to group um and so I I had
this idea uh in my head um that I wanted
to you know be financially
independent um I wanted uh I thought
that once I got to that point I would
start living life um and I thought that
um you know uh I would be more socially
accepted and I would find my tribe uh
and it's embarrassing to talk about it
now um but um you know that was really
what I thought so uh I thought that uh
if I was lucky and worked really hard I
might be able to retire in my
40s if I worked really hard but you know
50s for sure and and um so you know
getting to that point when I was 22
actually not 23 it it was just
mindboggling to me and um I had that
Financial Target in mind um and I
thought well once I hit that I'm just
going to like you know do something else
and and so as you said I kind of like
started frequenting all the night clubs
uh bought a sports car um tried to get
the girls I could never get before
realizing that yes I could get them um
but for all the wrong reasons and they
didn't really care about me um and it
was kind of a hollowing thing because it
was this kind of oh was this what I
worked for for such a long period of
time and then
um only to find out that um you know it
was quite depressing honestly I had all
these new friends that weren't really
great friends at all um luckily I was
able to keep my old friends as well um
but I realized that this thing I thought
I wanted uh I just didn't want at all
and um what was the symptom when we say
realize there's typically symptoms
psychological symptoms or um no I I
realized it because I I um you know I
started getting all these phone calls
from people um asking me to come out on
Friday evenings and Saturday evenings uh
and I just I was just empty I just had
no energy to do that um and I thought to
myself oh this is odd because they old
me thought this was what life was all
about and I had had girls call me and
like hey you should really come out we
miss you all that stuff and I realized
that I just didn't care and had um I
thought that that was you know this
magical moment and in fact um you know
putting on my computer or playing my
guitar um was kind of yeah this is more
me and so something on the back of my
head started forming around like who am
I what do I care about and it's it's
actually in that process I met my
co-founder because he was the founder of
trade doubler and who uh bought my uh
company and he too kind of the company
had iped he got kicked out of the
company he he was like a 100 times more
wealthier than I was like he he had like
the biggest success in Tech Sweden at
the time and had everything going for
him but he didn't know what to do with
life and so that was kind of how we
bonded um and um you know we were
watching like old Godfather movies
eating crisps um and talking about what
to do in life uh and and that was like a
real friendship moment a real Turning
Point uh and he saw um the same thing
that I saw and uh um you know that was
when I realized that I've been
approaching this all wrong uh in fact I
always LED working it was never about
money um I always liked learning um and
I would pay to go learn for someone
rather than getting paid for it and but
at the same time I thought work should
be hard that was the thing that I had
programmed into me so work has to be
clearly something you not don't enjoy
doing um so I thought well what if you
change all of these parameters what if
you create an environment where you can
come in and learn from really smart
people all the time what if you can work
on something you actually care about
opposed to something that makes money
what if you could have a lot of fun
while doing it and not take it too
serious and we started talking and um we
were balancing ideas and Martin my
co-founder was like asking me like Well
if you really could pick anything like
what what would you pick and I I'm I
said to him well um you know uh I'd
probably pick music but that's a
terrible idea uh and he said well why is
that a terrible idea and I said well
it's a terrible idea because you know
the industry is going down the drains it
just doesn't work it's piracy it's all
of these reasons and he said okay okay
um but but if one would fix it how would
one do well kind of stupid they're
trying to regulate it clearly you need
to build a better product that's the
only thing that's going to work CU they
said okay well how are you going to do
that and it's like well I don't know but
maybe you could do this or that okay
well how would that work I like well I
don't know but maybe you could do this
and that and how would you make money
well I I think maybe you could pay out
based on how much people were listening
I don't know and then literally after
going through why not uh 100 time times
I started realizing that yeah why not
and why not give this a shot and I told
him from the beginning you know uh that
um hey this is probably going to loes a
lot of money I have a hard time seeing
this ever being a sustainable business
um but I in let's do this and he said
great let's do it um and while I was
hesitating for some reason he wasn't uh
so he was like this seems fun let's do
it and that gave me enough confidence
where I kind of had found a new purpose
again and instantly I stopped responding
to all the people who were trying to get
me out in the evenings and I was like
well I got something to do and then I
went back to work again and it was like
pretty much a week from that moment
where I felt like I'm happy again I
haven't felt this happy for you know the
better part of a year because it was
about a year when I was going through
this transition of of just having fun
being retired um first month was fun 6
months in
depressing uh N9 months in am I ever
going to get out of this depression to
then kind of a year in finding something
else that I truly look forward to that
felt crazy um and I honestly did not
think we would succeed but if we succeed
I knew it was going to be a big
thing something really interesting there
that could relate to a lot was this idea
that you had a hypothesis about your
happiness that had to fail you to know
that it was not a valid hypothesis about
happiness and there's so many people
obviously I mean there's I'd assume it
more than half the population are
currently pursuing a hypothesis they
have about what will make them happy
that probably and this is the thing I
always wonder is does it have to fail
them for them to know that that's not
the right pursuit in my case it did it
had to fail me yeah I had to fill the
anticlimax and then I had to go and buy
the the big house and then was there for
nine months and got out of it as quick
as I could and bought the car and then
got rid of the car and then just moved
as close to the office as I could in a
one-bedroom studio apartment yeah yeah
but for a lot of people I'm like is
there a way for them not for it for them
not have to go all that way and have it
fail them well I think that there's
certain life experiences um uh that you
can't learn from other people you just
have to live live live it and I think
it's not so much about sort of the
monetary thing or the status thing um
although I would probably say status
whether or not you should really seek it
I think is one of those things that we
all have to go through I I think
everyone can talk about it don't seek
attention don't seek Fame don't seek all
of these things but we're we're human
beings we want to be well-liked by other
people um and so I think that is
probably one of them but but in general
I think the further away it is from
anything you know and can relate to I
think um
we have to uh experience parts of it so
you know one one of the most amazing
thing that I get to do these days for my
friends is um from like back when is I
take them on these crazy experiences uh
right you know I'm I'm fortunate enough
that I get to see some of the coolest
people in the world whether it's
musicians but athletes and and so on um
that uh they're able to get a glimpse of
my life uh and I love it because um you
know they're looking at it with this
kind of sh shlik imagination and wonder
about some some things that I'm going
through but I also see the other side
when they're like is it really that much
work wow I would never want to do this
and it's it's quite helpful um because
as we started out saying they have this
idea what the life is so I kind of like
bringing them along on the journey where
they get to see it and then um you can
see that there are aspects of it that
they like and then other aspects that
they would never ever want to get into
um so um you know I I think it might be
possible to kind of simulate that
experience um but I think you have to
experience it very much up close uh
certainly when you're talking about
wealth and if you come from having none
I think almost everyone then would
instantly need to experience a little
bit of it uh to at least kind of
understand whether that's important or
not especially if you get it uh like we
both did probably in our 20s and so on
had I had I worked up until my 40s I may
have kind of realized hey this isn't
life I'm I'm having children I'm having
my wife this is amazing I got this
experience being a single guy trying to
chase girls um and all I'd seen was on
MTV how all of the rappers uh were
throwing around money and uh having 20
or 30 girls at the nightclub and and you
know hey I wanted that too mhm one thing
I'm really interested in is you said you
got to 9 months and you were depressed
N9 months after the sale there are so
many people now and this is why I asked
about what the symptoms of that were
it's hard to know when we're drifting
down the wrong path because it creeps up
on us like a frog in a frying pan I I
remember a time working seven days a
week and this feeling in my chest if I
would describe it as like a a subtle
growing
emptiness and that was for me in
hindsight I was lonely yeah and I didn't
know I was yeah so those symptoms that
you encountered at 9 months in in a way
that someone might relate to them what
were those
feelings um I I I think my entire life
as I mentioned I I've been struggling to
fit in um and I think it's something we
probably share um and have in common and
I somehow thought that this would help
and um when the situation was new um it
did feel like I found my new tribe and
it did feel like they um um you know
this early excitement everyone's calling
you everyone wants you to be part of
something that you before may not have
been able to enjoy and may not get those
phone calls and may not get into the
hottest nightclubs and and the club
promoters like putting you on the list
plus 10 and all that stuff this social
currency so it was thrilling it was
absolutely amazing and and it it truly
was this kind of like wow I've made it
kind of
feeling um but um after you experien the
10th time and I somehow had this idea
that it would translate into this
continuous feeling of that thing or
translate into something more meaningful
I I sort of realized that no wait a
minute it's the same experience again
but it's lost a little bit of a charm
and I started now getting the
hangarounds that we're trying to get in
with me because you know they realized
that maybe I would buy the bottles um I
was seeing people at the table come up
and grab a glass and then run away um
all of that kind of thing and I I I it's
slowly sort of dawn upon me that um you
could replace me by just anyone else
that had um the money and the connection
that I had at that time thereby the
status and it would really would matter
um you know and and um uh you know I I
was I was listening to I think it's his
name is Morgan howold um the author who
talks about psychology of money and he
kind of talked about it the the the
Ferrari syndrome and he basically
describes that uh everyone uh who
aspires to buy a Ferrari um thinks of
themselves and saying oh well one day
when I'm in this Ferrari everyone's
going to look at this Ferrari and
they're going to be amazed with me yeah
what we all do is we look at the Ferrari
and we want to sit there we actually
don't care about the individual that's
currently sitting in there so this kind
of um you know Paradox um so to speak
and and that's very much how I felt
about my life and as you're right right
it uh you push that to a side and you
say well surely this you know this is
fun and you have all these other people
coming out and then you kind of bury it
and then it keeps coming up and then it
comes up again and then it comes up more
and more and more and I didn't realize
what it was at first because I was like
surely I'm just being foolish this is
this is life and everyone was rewarding
me on the outside too saying why the
life you live this is amazing how cool
is not to be retired and just not having
to do anything um but I wasn't learning
and I wasn't forming genine connections
with people um I was just being and uh
yes I got status but I realized I never
did anything for status and I actually
did didn't care in the end uh from being
status I cared about belonging but not
in that group um I wanted to be uh in
another group that cared about um me for
being me and you must have learned a lot
now in hindsight about what the core
components of you being sufficiently
happy are you've used a few of them
there like learning was one of them
belonging what are what are the other
core components of you think for someone
just it's easier to just talk about
ourselves here for you to be
stable um I I I realized
um that I also need to be by by be
allowed to be by myself right um so I
used to in Prior relationships um before
meeting my wife I used to think you know
you're in a relationship you constantly
need to do something with the other
party and it was draining me and uh I
used to think there was something wrong
with me uh because I wanted to be by
myself for most of the time and um and
being comfortable with that I am that
way that I I thrive on loneliness uh not
all the time because I can feel lonely
um but um for quite a lot of time
perhaps more so than more normal people
like being lonely um I'm I'm just
finding myself in that um place where I
just pursue whatever um is top of mind
for me I am sort of in my own thoughts
uh wandering dreaming uh scheming um you
know um that's been very important too
because I used to think there was
something wrong with that yeah uh and
then my wife luckily she's kind of the
same she does her thing and I do my
thing and we love that we can do stuff
with each other but we're also perfectly
happy doing things on our own um and um
and that kind of taught me also quite a
lot about
myself in that because again we are
social animals uh and I am too by the
way I love um hanging out with my
friends but I also love being by myself
so I think having a positive impact um
not just on myself I have to feel good
about what I'm doing and know that it
helps someone um being able to learn uh
being able to have fun while doing it
and uh then be in an environment where I
can be lonely and then can come back
without that being sort of socially
awkward uh like one of my favorite
things that I can do with my close
friends is I can literally uh let's say
I would host a dinner I could host a
dinner uh and I get an idea it's very
uncommon but I'll get an idea and I will
walk away and disappear for an hour and
I'll come back um and uh that's like
something that's kind of socially
acceptable in most situation I do
realize that so I I try to not do that
if I'm I'm with um you know strangers
because they won't understand they W
won't understand but my real friends um
they know that about me and they're like
totally cool so they just hang out and
then when I come back I love that
they're there and I love that they're
hanging out with my kids or hanging out
with my wife and doing other stuff and
just being comfortable in in that that
for me is like a perfect dinner is one
where
I would be social I would get an idea
walk away think about it for a moment
get collect my thoughts get energy write
it down and come back filled with energy
from that and then you know continue the
conversation uh that's a great example
of something I love doing so that's
actually happened where you've been at a
dinner party with friends and then
you've had an idea and you've left you
and then you've my thing there is if I
left so the first thing is I'm not sure
my girlfriend would be very happy
yeah she understands that I'm like that
she understands that I love being alone
she understands that I get ideas at
unpredictable times and that idea might
suck me away she probably would be that
happy um about it probably need to have
a conversation about that um but also if
I went away I would need to start
working on the idea because I'd get so
energized about the thing that I'd then
spend all night like sorry guys I yeah
that happens by the way it happens that
I like finish halfway through the dinner
and just disappear don't come back to I
will say my friends usually uh even my
close friends are like uh hey we came to
hang out with you not like to see you
for half an hour then you're
disappearing uh but it happens um um but
I can obviously equally be there for all
the dinner too um and and yeah I mean it
is one of the social Oddities I think
that I do um with my close friends um
and I again I I know it's highly
socially unacceptable that most
situations but but if you really think
about it as an introvert as I said I
usually thrive on I need social elements
but I get most of my energy being by
myself all right and and so then from an
energy balance uh perspective being with
people it gives me a lot of ideas it's
great but it also empties my energy
reserved and going away filling them up
again coming back it is probably the
ideal way for me if you you asked me
like what would a perfect night look
like it would probably be that how do
you then balance romance and
relationships and my partner her I think
her attachment style and her love
language is like quality time so I often
violate that love language because of
what you've just described yeah we could
be Saturday in a park and then I think
about something or get an email and then
I'm off away on my own little world yeah
yeah I mean that's certainly the risk um
again I'm I'm fortunate enough that my
wife is kind of very similar to me in
that regard so she too leaves uh dinners
and has her ideas and and uh you know do
that so I think we're we're more similar
we try to make sure that one of us stay
because it gets very awkward otherwise
um but but if you're both like that do
you have to have rules though for when
you do B yeah well that's the thing
that's that's actually the harder thing
for us is finding that quality time so I
mean there's two parts you can either
have I I like defaults so you can have
like the default is we spend time
together or the default is we're in a
relationship where we don't spend time
together and so you have to make time
where you're actively finding something
you both are interested in and you want
to spend time on together and I think
we're more that and I think most people
probably with kids would recognize that
because the kids come first in the
relationship anyway so your relationship
to your significant other um is probably
you know um the second priority in that
relationship and and your wants kids are
the first so I don't think that's
uncommon but I think changing that
theault could be really important um and
again if it's something that's really
important to my wife of course I'm going
to be present uh she's really into horse
riding uh I'm not but I know it's
matters to her greatly so not only uh
will I try to speak to her every morning
when she wants to talk about that but I
also show up for her competitions or I
show up for important practices uh that
she has as well um and um there are
aspects of the horsing thing where we
can Bond and and have great quality time
as well um as it is she loves hearing
about my entrepreneurial Endeavors uh as
well and and we find quality time
through that and then we have date
nights like most couples do and uh yeah
I mean if you're at the restaurant you
don't just really walk up and get away
of course you're going to spend that
quality time as
well starting
Spotify when I heard the Spotify story I
I really wanted to meet you
because I consider myself to be
ambitious but there are some challenges
that I would just view as impossible and
at the time when you consider how the
music industry was that it's ran by
these big record labels predominantly
and they own the music to be a young kid
from
Sweden and believe that you could change
that for me is a special type of
delusion like it's like a it's just an
impossible task it's what I just would
have thought okay some things are the
way they are they're removable objects
that is one of them yeah why didn't you
think that was a impossible
task
um well I think for several reasons but
I I think that is the beautiful naivity
of an entrepreneur as well right uh we
move mountains I'm sure Elon was you
know even more insurmountable thing
electric cars and hadn't been a
successful car companies for uh I think
a century or something um or at least uh
you know many many decades in the US and
he managed to do that so I think it's um
it it's part
illusion uh delusion sorry um but but
the other part I think um also is that
what I realized is before even
committing to this idea as the the why
not part I probably spent 500 hours
learning about this problem and the
scarcest resource we have in the world
today by far is time and when you have
high quality people that spend thousands
of hours on a problem you find new
Solutions and so the biggest um thing
for Humanity I believe is simply that um
I believe we're capable of doing
practically anything but uh there aren't
that many people that um can see these
multi-dimensional things with that right
experience that happens to come in at
that right time they're spending
thousands of hours of trying to needle
in a Hast stack see that opportunity
through that very very tiny prism and
and um um even even today when I think
about it some of my other businesses it
kind of work the same way so I started a
healthc care business about five years
ago but I I was spending um I think the
first interview when I mentioned it was
in
2009 um and I started the company 5
years ago uh 2018 so I I probably spent
a decade thinking about this problem um
and I couldn't figure out a solution
2008 yeah yeah you you started the 2008
but you no no no I started the company
the Healthcare company in 2018 18 but I
started thinking about it 2008 oh okay
um so I have a notebook with all my
crazy ideas most of them amount to
nothing uh quite often someone else
comes along and dust them and I'm happy
and it's amazing um but every now and
then um nothing happens for a great
period of time and I kind of feel that
itch to maybe make a difference myself
and I and I say that because like the
realization there was um I had spend up
until that point thousands of hours
understanding the Health Care System why
it is the way it is the incentive
schemes and the what the NHS is doing
and what someone else is doing and the
Public Health Care System Insurance
business directed consumer things the
the longevity curves of human beings the
disease groups the costs curves like all
of those aspects um about it similar to
how you're describing looking at Rockets
um but you know imagine you spending a
thousand hours to Rocket not just kind
of casually researching it I am sure you
will find novel ways of how to attack
the problem it may not be because you
know if you're not an physicist you may
not come up with a next rocket engine um
but you may find another twist uh to on
how to attack this problem and I don't
really think it comes down to that and
so uh in the space of music I don't know
anything about the music industry going
into it um but I would argue a few years
into it I was probably one of the most
foremost experts on copyright in the
world around like the dmca and um what
the US copyright regime look like and
what what um other regimes look like and
how um you know performance rights
societies label rights and what kind of
Rights mechanical rights performing
rights uh all of those different aspects
all the different Co code is are C
numbers ISBN numbers and how they
related and so on and so forth and and
um um you know I I find like people
either get too modeled in on the details
and don't see the bigger picture or they
stay too top level picture to really see
the new ones and the question is how do
you dive deep enough where you see it
and figure out which problem to solve in
what order um and and I was at that
point um by probably 2007 having spent a
year on Spotify but the team was super
small so it it really wasn't a big
commit at that time and I wasn't sure at
that time but then I realized that hey
this is actually possible uh because we'
built the product that showcased the
technology um of what we were doing and
it felt like if you had all the world
music on your hard drive so then the
real problem ended up being can we get
the music industry to accept this and to
that I had no idea but I felt like this
is so obviously if this came out in the
marketplace what consumers would ask for
now the only question is is the music
industry going to allow this and that
took me another year and a half 18
months to learn the answer and it was
completely binary we almost died
probably four times um in that process
and ran out of money and uh record
company saying no no this is never going
to happen until eventually one day Stars
aligned and we were able to launch um
but that was not a given but it felt
like the right bet to make because you
know it was a binary outcome either we'd
fail the price wasn't all too bad if we
would succeed it was clearly so that at
least this would resonate very well with
consumers was there any moments where
you thought that it wasn't going to
happen are you conversations you had
with record labels where someone very
high up says absolutely no way me many
times uh I would say
um probably once every month or two over
a 2-year period I thought that this
probably won't pan out uh and it was
incredibly demoralizing I I usually joke
but like in the beginning of that
process I had hair and then in the end
of it I lost all of the hair I probably
gained 30 lbs in weight uh during that
period of time um it was awful um but
through it all my co-founder Martin uh
probably a factor of just who he is as
an individual but also probably because
he didn't participate in these meetings
uh kept being really upbeat kept being
um you know an amazing support and said
don't worry about it you're going to
figure it out and he just kept believing
in me and then he also said a few times
you know when that was in enough he said
don't worry about it we'll figure out
something else if this doesn't work out
it felt to me like I always had that
safety net and it was just the amount
the push that I needed to do this um and
again talking about not giving advice
but the advice that I do give to other
people is to share the burden with
someone uh it is so important um and I
know I get most of the credit for
Spotify but it is really a team effort
uh from the gustavs and Alex and all
those people but then also in the early
days from uh Martin in believing in me
uh and and knowing uh with this kind of
Supernatural ability that I'm going to
pull it off some
that must have told you a story which I
guess has stayed with you about
perseverance and the power of
perseverance the the double-edged sword
to that
is sometimes it's right to quit as well
yeah and knowing when to persevere and
knowing when you're just wasting your
time which is as you said the most
important currency of all yeah you
know that's where you know art meets
science um there is no scientific answer
because it depends it's an art to know
uh when something is futile and when
something is worth doing but I call it
that sort of binary outcome but uh with
uneven distribution right so if you
think about it as a curve even if it's
50/50 whether you succeed but on the
upside you can win a lot more than you
can lose and all you can really lose is
one time and the upside maybe 100 m it's
probably worth uh persuading obviously
it's that's the science part the art
thing is okay well is it really 100
times is a 10 times and and have I
already lost but I'm just not aware of
it um that's the art and also in that I
hear an optimism bias from two
co-founders the the constant oh we'll
figure it out we'll figure it out we'll
figure it out how important do you think
that is especially you know you hire a
lot of people is that something you're
like looking for and the people that you
work with that bias towards will figure
it out um I think again it depends on
the role you're Hing for you need a team
uh I think it's really important that
you just don't surround yourself with
just yes people or Optimist uh you need
the naysayer in the room as well you
need the people who will balance it out
and be the one who says I'm not sure
this is going to work out um and and so
often I think that's the that's the
important part we keep talking about it
CFO or sales people but again you can
have a deal making CFO and a sales
person that's Happy gol lucky um it may
not be a great uh combo you may want the
the CFO to be skeptical about the sales
Pipeline and a happy gol lucky
salesperson or the inverse maybe like
really diligent that and the CFO that
maybe sort of like don't worry about it
we will sort it out um but I but I think
so much about that is the subtleties we
we don't have a perfect model of the
world um and uh the more experience I
have it's a Cheesy thing to say but the
Lesser realize that actually no um and
so much of this are actually down in the
nuances and most people are um above the
nuances don't really understand the
issues well enough or too bog down into
details to understand the bigger picture
and and going that sort of up and down
that's sort of super detail oriented um
but also being able to go up and see the
big pictures that is um and simplifying
very complex Concepts I think some of
the most amazing entrepreneurs in the
world are experts at um and that is the
superpower and that is certainly one
that I'm trying to hone um uh and work
on uh but when you see it like Steve
Jobs when you take very complex things
and people say he didn't understand
engineering and Technical problems it's
not true yes he may not have been an
engineer he may not have known how to
write code but he certainly could
empathize with what um made an amazing
engineer tick uh empathize with
different Technical Solutions will have
different inputs and outputs um and he
understood it and um he was brilliant in
taking very complex ideas and
understanding how to make that resonate
for the everyday person these Tales I
hear of you sort of being outside record
labels and waiting for the CEO to come
out so that you could catch them or
trying to accost I don't know the the
assistant outside and asking when the
CEO was coming outside so that you could
get a meeting with them yeah are these
Tales true um as with many they're
probably exaggerated a little bit um
where is the truth well the the the
truth is that certainly happened but it
wasn't you know I've heard people
recounted us that I slept outside of the
the record labels kind of in a sleeping
bag that that didn't happen uh that
happened another time in my career but
it wasn't um it it it didn't happen
there but but it certainly happened that
I'd book A Week fly to New York with no
meeting booked uh with basically an open
calendar and about 20 phone calls a day
just trying to figure out a time to get
on this the schedule of U senior VP or a
CEO Etc that certainly happened and that
taught me another thing too which is
that these assistants like you better
befriend them because they are the keys
to the kingdom um and most people don't
care about them at all uh but they're
very influential they're very powerful
um and uh and and you know uh that was
hard in the beginning but then I
realized that um they got to see me as
an individual saw them as an individual
and eventually you know this this is not
we tend to believe the world is more
logical than what it is but a lot of it
is based on relationship So eventually
some of them started taking a liking to
me and so when there was the opportunity
and they could prioritize 10 other
things for that CEO to do but I was
there I was friendly uh in easy to work
with show up at no moments notice even
if you know it was 20 minutes before
finding out about it I would show up um
and so I was I was easy to deal with so
take away all that complexity in order
to achieve the outcome that I wanted to
do and sometimes that is as simple as it
is just be consistent be the easiest
person to deal with and you'd be
surprised how many problems it solves
did you invest your personal Capital
into starting Spotify because I I read
again that you'd spent pretty much all
of your personal wealth to start the
company yeah yeah I did uh so I invested
not all of it but quite substantial
amounts of it uh and my Cod funer
invested even more but he obviously had
a much larger sum of money um from the
beginning um yeah so all in all I think
we invested about $10 million uh into
this um by ourselves uh which was also
crazy because you know back then today
10 million into a startup just was isn't
a big number there many startups that
have done that before but doing that on
a seed stage uh back in 2007
that just was unheard of it was usually
500k seed check sums Etc what if it
hadn't worked out what would have been
the personal implications for you
financially uh the personal implications
that I went from not having to have a
job to then probably having to go back
to having a job um so I basically took
that security uh that I built up uh that
22 I'm set for life and I gave that up
um in a moment's notice um and um yeah I
mean um I I don't know what to say I
think from a purely logical point of
view it was probably terrible decision
um but betting on myself and betting on
yourself would probably be again U I say
I shouldn't give advice but it is
probably the the best advice I could
give many people is is you know because
especially those that want to invest in
various startups Etc and I but they may
not have a lot of money and then I
always say well what what don't you just
bet on your yourself instead why don't
you just try to like work for one of
these startups like you said and and
maybe take a little bit more equity and
a little bit less pay and take out of
your cash instead because that way you
increase the likelihood hopefully if you
know you're good of the company being a
success and it just feels like the more
prudent thing to do and so I had a
sneaky feeling that that was the right
thing to do uh but investing as much
probably wasn't the smartest thing to do
a new po sponsor that I'm super excited
to talk about with all of you is
LinkedIn jobs hiring as I would know is
one of the most important steps in your
business without good people there is no
company trust me I found out along the
way that your business is nothing
without good people you want to be 100%
certain though that you have access to
the best candidates available and that's
why you have to check out LinkedIn jobs
LinkedIn jobs helps you to find the
right people for your team faster and
for free so when I'm expanding my my
team LinkedIn is my first Port of Call
I'd highly recommend it on LinkedIn jobs
posting a job is super easy and you can
add a purple hash hiring frame around
your LinkedIn profile to spread the word
LinkedIn jobs helps you find the
qualified candidates you want to talk to
faster post your job for free at
linkedin.com
doac that's linkedin.com
doac to post your job for free terms and
conditions apply as you may know this
podcast is sponsored by hu if you're
living under a rock you might have
missed that I've come to learn over time
not all of the products they have are
for me but the ones that are for me have
really really changed my life in a
profound way all of the products are
designed for different use cases and
different people for me as you'll
probably know the ready to drink bottles
are a staple of my life at the moment um
and they have been for many many years
but for a lot of other people they have
the hot and savory which is a 5 minute
hot meal that's nutritionally complete
and contains all the good stuff that all
heel products contain which is the 23
vitamins and minerals and the wonderful
balance of sort of nutritional
completeness and then you have the bars
as well if you've heard about hu on this
podcast you've heard me talking about it
a lot you're aware that I'm an investor
in the company you're aware that I'm on
the board of the company and you're not
sure where to start I would highly
recommend starting with the bestseller
bundle basically we'll send you a
package in the pose containing all of
the favorite products that people love
and then you try them all and stick with
the ones that really really fit you the
link is in the description below to try
the best seller bundle
Spotify goes on to be I mean success is
probably an understatement and I know
the journey to that success had multiple
near-death experiences to get there one
of the key things key moments I reflect
on as a Spotify customer um is when
Apple launched their competing product
Apple music in 2015 I believe it was and
there was lots of Articles saying that
this would be the death of Spotify yeah
I think I was even concerned as a very
loyal Spotify user I thought [__] you
know they have all the phones they have
they're kind of like the mafia they
could just was you yeah most companies
when Apple comes into their territory
shaking their boots yeah what was it
like in your office that day when Apple
music launched a competing product you
know when you live in the thick of the
fire you're not concerned about the
things that everyone else is concerned
about um I I usually say public
perception lacks about 6 to 12 months
what's actually going on and and so in
our case we had known that Apple was
going to launch something for probably
the better part of a year because they
had the Beats acquisition beforehand and
we were hearing all sorts of rumors Etc
about what it was so absolutely you have
to be worried when one of the greatest
companies on Earth decides to compete
with you so we were concerned about it
um uh and we were kind of doubling down
on what our positioning was going to be
so you kind of like double and triple
checked whether or not um you know you
were deluding yourself into believing
things to be true um and and so for
instance in our case one of the big
things uh we we had a some strategic
pillars that we were focusing on one of
them we call ubiquity um because we
always knew this would eventually be the
case we we thought that consumers would
value the ability to work across all
devices and all ecosystem and our bet
would be that um any competitor we might
have had would actually focus on
reinforcing their own ecosystem and not
care about all the other stuff so the
primary reason they were into a music
service would be to make their own
devices better not to make the world's
best music service and um and so you
know that's why we made such an effort
of integrating into cars integrating
into all sorts of uh weird devices smart
fridges whatever you might think um and
so so it was kind of like reiterating
that but I felt pretty good about that
position um and going back and then
there's always the sort of like what if
they figured out something that we just
wouldn't have thought about uh and I
remember we were constantly talking to
the product teams about this uh and like
what what what if they come up with this
and we're literally trying this game
theorizing every possible angle um on it
um um but I think at the end of the day
we we kind of went through the Thousand
scenarios kind of thing we knew we had
prepared as well as we could um we um
anticipated a certain type of product
there was this kind of 1% or 10% chance
whatever you want to quantify it as
where we would just be wrong and they'd
come up with something that widely
superseded any of our expectations um
but that very day remember we'd been
preparing for that day for so long so
the first reaction was kind of them
announcing it which we expected them to
do uh and then seeing the walkthrough of
the product and realizing that okay well
we prepared for this we thought about
this Etc and so weirdly enough as the
rest of the world World kind of like
gasped for air um we were thinking about
it okay well this was what we expected
um and back to that point distribution
was the amazing thing they hadn't come
up with something on the product side
that we just didn't anticipate um but it
was really just about distribution and
there was nothing we could do to guard
ourselves against it um but we felt like
we had a superior experience um on the
personalization side the fact that you
know if you have a Windows machine and
an iPhone um Spotify would work um but
Apple music um wouldn't at that time um
so there were many of those things that
we um I thought had a better positioning
than they had i' I've long thought that
I've tried both I mean I tried it when
it came out and I couldn't stick to it
um and I think me and my friends who
were in my music group we all concluded
that the personalization how Spotify
understands me yeah is really the thing
it's hard to know why you do what you do
as a consumer y but from analyzing it a
bit more deeply um it just felt like I'd
built there was a lot of investment I'd
done to my playlists and all those
things but Spotify just knew me better
seems to have much more data than um
data on me and understands me and is
more of a bespoke solution to me than
Apple was and also the the user
experience is not great and I just can't
get past that I just so I tried it and I
bounced I I I just stuck with Spotify um
Apple are I Ed the word Matthew earlier
on a lot of people don't know this but
they take 30% revenues on pretty much
every new app in the store they've
rejected your audiobook app multiple
times um there's a rumor going around
that they even delay how quickly you can
release new updates of your app and
delay how that reaches phones what's
your opinion on Apple and what they do
and how they conduct themselves well um
it it's um as a consumer uh let's start
off with apple is a fantastic company
and they make amazing products uh I
really do believe that um I've been a
Mac User since I can't even remember
probably late '90s when I could first
afford one uh all the way to now and
obviously use the iPhone and Apple
watches and all that stuff so let's
start with that and I think that's hard
to square then that there's this other
company that's
fiercely um focused on just um itself
and constantly trying to do things by
itself and out working well with others
um and
um those are perhaps two different sites
of the same coin um but um you know the
the way that manifests itself um I think
that it's a company in many cases that
still sees itself as an underdog uh but
don't realize that they become Goliath
and so many of the tactics that made it
the rebel kind of thing are now stifling
Innovation and it's really hurting
consumers to a great extent with the 30%
you talked about with the fact that you
know Spotify can't um or any developer
if you don't pay the 30% you can't even
speak to your consumers it is kind of
absurd um so you know there there's a
ruthlessness um on the business side of
Apple um and and perhaps it's always
been so I don't know I never got the
opportunity to meet Steve Jobs but um uh
um where just from an ethos point of
view it's just not me um and um um I
have a hard time squaring that with me
as the consumer and me as the business
leader um and needless to say I I I do
believe that Apple can and should play
fair and I think it would be way better
for the world if they did um and I think
um that it would actually help them in
many regards to switch their tactics and
realize that they are the Goliath at
this point and not David um and so yeah
one of the things I want to close on um
is your philosophy so I guess it's the
same answer because spotify's philosophy
towards what's made it successful will
probably be in many respects a
reflection of your philosophies towards
business and and um more broadly towards
life but when I sit here and I think a
lot of people will sit here and say um
there's clearly something unique about
you about the way you approach problem
solving problems life business all of
those things that has
been that has defined you and set you
apart are you aware of what that is what
those principles
are um no I don't think so but I think
you're right in that um you know the the
the way I would describe Spotify um to
people you're WR that it is scary
sometimes watching Spotify uh trying to
watch it from a distance and not just be
in it because sometimes it's doing
things where I'm like how did how did
people know that we were supposed to do
it this way um and it would be how I
would approach solving a problem and
it's kind of how um you know we've
internalized certain things but the best
way is it's 17 years old now and it is a
teenager that's liberating itself so
it's not 100% me uh in fact it is this
much broader uh different being uh there
are aspects of it it that um hasn't
taken after me um at all in um product
development you know Gustav is a
formidable product leader as an example
and Alex is a formidable business leader
and the two of them are now leading more
of the day-to-day and they're certainly
instilling their personal uh values and
their personal uh perspective of the of
the company too which I think they're
totally entitled to doing having been
with the company for 12 plus years both
of them um but it is interesting see it
because we're approaching things now in
a way I wouldn't always do it's not
inconsistent with important principles
of mine but but uh it's certainly not
directed and the other part is I started
this as a 23-year-old and the
23-year-old Daniel while many parts are
the same uh The 40-Year-Old Daniel with
um two kids um having seen that have
changed perspectives as well uh I have a
different feeling about work and and the
importance of that in my life still very
important but may not be the sole most
important thing that I do just to
mention one and so it has similarities
uh but there's differences to me as an
individual too but I think if you
compare me the 23y old Daniel the
30-year old Daniel The 40-Year-Old
Daniel um I've evolved too and and
candidly I'm in that period at the
moment where I'm perhaps trying to
figure out who Who The 40-Year-Old
Daniel really is because it's a
different one than the 30-year-old one
um maybe it's
subtleties but um I think in quite a big
way also and just thinking about
something like culture the 23-year-old
Daniel um culture was having a pinpoint
table uh 30-year-old Daniel uh would
have said yeah culture is important but
didn't really understand why and The
40-Year-Old Daniel uh would be um in the
30-year-old Daniel would be more
strategy than culture actually and The
40-Year-Old Daniel is all about culture
almost to the point where strategy is um
secondary if not even tertiary to that
um 40-year-old Daniel is all about
culture yeah uh way more so what is the
culture well that's the amazing thing
because it is the most scalable thing
done right of a company um and it's the
hardest thing right because it is
everything and nothing it is every
positive action that's happening in the
company it's every negative action of
company every person that's joining
every person is leaving is impacting
culture and so um in its Essence I
believe culture is about rewarding the
positive behaviors you want to see in
the company and obviously disuade the
negative what are the positive behaviors
you want to see well one of them is
taking risks um and failing and how do
you do that when you have eight or 9,000
people inside of a company responsibly
how do you
uh when the common status quo is we
don't like failure um you don't get
promoted based on failure you get
promoted based on being successful um
Annie Duke has this thinking in bets she
talks about I love that is thinking
about poker ships on the table and and
she said one time when when we spoke she
said to me is like um a companies like
um everyone has ships at the table we
just don't know how many we have and so
the people that have been successful
have way more so they have leniency and
allowanc in the culture of any
organizations to do more than someone
who just started um and perhaps have a
less lesser ones and if you failed
enough times what's naturally going to
happen is that you won't have the same
agency in a large organization to impact
things too so then the the Counterpoint
to that would be well H how do you then
um create an environment with people um
are allowed to take risks and then
balance that with say a Spotify at this
point where we have a huge amount of
responsibility too we have tens of
millions of creators that have their
livelihood of them platform so we can
just experiment with how we're paying
out and so on and so forth right and 550
million consumers uh we have to be
responsible with their data we can't um
you know put new things in front of them
without testing them and so on and so
forth and so um there there's this
constant tension between uh being
Innovative taking
risks um and um you know at the same
time obviously being responsible and and
that's hard but that's all about culture
I'm absolutely obsessed with the subject
of culture because I really think it's
an under underappreciated factor in um
in why businesses are the way they are I
think you could basically take a person
off the street and the culture you drop
them in determines the behavior you'll
get from them yeah and so um and having
sat here and interviewed like Sir Alex
Ferguson's ex- teammates yeah you just
come to learn that sir Alex Ferguson's
greatness wasn't strategy they all say
to me I remember Patrice and Evra said
to me that he walked in on a we were
playing Arsenal yeah on a Sunday in
London yeah and he walked in and just
said Lads listen beautiful weather
outside don't [__] up my Sunday and
walked out because his thing was
management he just had this culture the
other thing they said to me which has
always stayed with me is Rio Ferdinand
said to me how many times do you think
he came into the training ground
dressing room yeah 26 years I I don't
know he go they said twice really didn't
need to come in there the culture was in
there yeah and it was self- policing
when it's strong right yeah but you're
right sports teams the ones that do
really well um I was being told an
Arsenal story that probably can't share
but uh you could see bits and pieces of
mikel's um you know how he's pushing
that team culture at the moment too
which seems very fascinating uh with
some of the almost Antics uh he seems to
be doing this All or Nothing SE that was
um I think last season um as well um so
you can see that and I love studying
that with sports teams because you know
it's 11 players on the pits how do how
do you make these people Jael together
um and form a team um hugely important
thing so I agree but but also like
imagine if you had 11 new players uh you
know yeah can you even form or Chelsea
these days too right um can you even uh
create a culture that way uh or is it
something that should be done
intentional um I mean if you're growing
a company growing the number of
employees by 50% two years in a row most
of your employees probably won't have
been here even for a year um it will
change things whereas if you make
something where it's more of a gradual
change um it will uh it's easier I'm not
saying it's trivial but to to kind of
have the same culture um and I think
many Founders uh make that mistake when
overh high they don't understand the
implication of the culture they just
look at sort of more Warm Bodies but
it's all these other subtle things that
starts breaking Daniel we've got a
closing tradition on this podcast where
the last guest leaves a question for the
next guest and I love this question
because um you don't like giving advice
so this is a perfect one for you um what
is the advice that someone could have
but didn't give you at 21 years old that
would have made you more successful at
the thing you now
do I
um I think uh we we spoke about it um
I've gone through iterations of uh
trying to learn from other people to
model that uh huge part of that has been
kind of um optimizing for my strengths
and not covering my
weaknesses um and I wish
um that I um realized much earlier on
that perhaps my superpower is that I'm
pretty good allaround her and not
particularly good at anything so I used
to think for instance that I had this
brilliant um you know model myself on
the Mark Zuckerberg of the world of like
I need to run every product meeting I
need to be the best product person in
the world just wasn't me and it took me
a while to realize that and be
comfortable um saying that right um
um but um I I have realized that I do
like a lot of different things I love
learning about new things and perhaps
that is my superpower uh to realize that
the person who's doing PR that's quite
an interesting thing to learn about um
there are interesting things about
employment law how that came to be and
trying to understand that and you the
list goes on and on and on and I love
that um and I wish I would have probably
understood that earlier about myself
because that would have allowed myself
to uh not model so much on other people
but but um somehow U be more
introspective and listen to
myself and I think that's really one of
the things I I take away from you said
very eloquently is that your proof that
entrepreneurs can Buck a number of
different Trends you know and still be
wildly successful and that evidence
means to someone like me that there's no
such thing as a entrepreneur in terms of
how they operate what they're interested
in um and that there's many ways to be a
successful entrepreneur and it really
from what you've just said there the
most Surefire way of becoming a
successful entrepreneur is actually
looking inward versus looking outwards
at like oh how does Elon do it or how
does Mark do it or how does Daniel do it
yeah um which stays with me a lot
because it's really changed my thinking
on a few really important things that I
think I've been
yeah I've been limit I've been limiting
myself on um Daniel thank you so much
thank you so much for having me building
such a great business and building a
business that that is um I guess it even
though you're number one still embodies
the kind of first principal Underdog
mentality there's something about
Spotify which is it feels I know you
probably don't like this word but I
don't know if you do but it feels more
like a family because I've met a lot of
the people there and I know a lot of
them yeah and they're like really nice
people that are very open books it
doesn't feel like a big corporate to me
um it's very humble in it in its in its
approach but it's also very ambitious
yeah and it strikes that balance really
wonder wonderfully well and it's some
it's a company and a brand that I deeply
resonate with for that reason it's a
wonder wonderful thing and I think um
you know you talked about wanting to do
work that brings good to the world the
good to the world that Spotify has done
in my view is in quantifiable because I
mean music is a is a wonderful thing but
what you're doing now in podcasting as
well and how you've really owned and
driven that industry forward for people
like me to have these longer form more
contextual conversations I think it's
hard to measure the good that's done to
the world but it's certainly thank you
an important one thank you that means a
lot to me and and you're right um you
know it's about being humble while doing
it but um you know ambition and
humbleness may not seem like they go
hand hand in hand and so I think you
capture the essence of what we like
Spotify to be at best which is super
ambitious but yet hum humble uh with all
of his past success all of that stuff
that we're still learning super curious
I I've never told the story before but
when I went I went on a trip to Sweden
and I was there with some of your
colleagues so gustof who's head of
product right and Alex who's head of
business everything that makes money and
I was there with Shaquille as well who's
a good friend and colleague of yours and
has been for a long time Y and they sat
me down at a table for for about 30
minutes or an hour yeah and said
you're a podcaster Steve yeah tell us
everything we need to know about
podcasting how can we make um Spotify
better for you as a podcaster and for
the very people at the top of Spotify to
sit and listen so
intently to me and then to act upon what
I said and then give me feedback weeks
later and say okay we're now you know
working on this having listened to you
it's not something that a big corporate
that was arrogant or very sure of
themselves or had lost that mentality
whatever do that stayed with me because
it's hard to do that when you get big to
really be curious and humble and that's
exactly what Spotify is so I wish I wish
you all the luck in the world and I'm
sure you won't need it because you've
got a wonderful culture of um people and
great people around you but just wanted
to say thank you for that well no thank
you and I mean again yes we listen but
it's also because you are innovating uh
on your side and uh uh with all the
aspects even seeing your studio here
today it's kind of like bringing it to
the next level so that's that's amazing
to see that you're able to do that
amazing to bring these conversations to
the world and we all get the benefit to
learn from them as well without maybe
having the opportunity like you have to
meet all these individuals too and
that's going to bring a lot of growth
Journeys uh for a lot of people too so
thank
you we've got an exciting new sponsor on
this podcast and I couldn't be more
excited to announce that we're now
working with Shopify and if there's one
tool that I use pretty much every single
day in my businesses that is certainly
Shopify I'm sure you've all heard about
Shopify but for some reason if you
haven't then Shopify is is the Commerce
platform that is revolutionizing
millions of businesses worldwide whether
you're starting a side hustle a new
project with a friend or a global
business Shopify has you covered you
guys may know that we recently sold a
product on this platform called the
davio conversation cards which featured
questions from the guests in these
episodes and from start to finish from
launching that product we used Shopify a
total Game Changer makes life incredibly
incredibly smooth when it relates to
business and a tool that my team have
absolutely loved using which is not
always the case with technology we
couldn't have launched those ation cards
without it and if you guys haven't tried
Shopify out for yourself then I highly
suggest you do head to shopify.com
Bartlet to take your business to the
next level today and let me know how you
get on that's shopify.com Bartlet let me
know how you get on
[Music]
oh